in the outback of Australia you can
sense the great antiquity of the earth
and the tiny amount of time that
humanity has been part of its history
the preneur ulu National Park is also
part of the Kimberley region of
northwestern Australia this puzzling
landscape is known as the bungle bungles
the bedrock of this plateau is very
ancient laid down in the estuaries of
rivers early in the Earth's history but
the curious beehive shape domes of
sandstone are comparatively recent
creations shaped during the last 20
million years the bizarre striping is
due to the way alternate layers of
sandstone have developed a protective
coating of either red iron oxide or
blue-green lichens if it were not for
this natural covering the fragile
sandstone shapes would have been worn
down long ago
this jewel of the Kimberley's is now one
of australia's 500 national parks all
illustrating chapters in the country's
long and dramatic geological story
you
the largest of Australia's natural
wonders is the Great Barrier Reef it
fringes 1,400 miles of the tropical
queensland coast it's a complex mosaic
of 3,000 individual reefs and many small
islands all built of coral and sand
evolved over hundreds of thousands of
years it's one of nature's most
impressive creations
the first astronauts to circle the earth
reported they could make out the color
and shapes of the individual reefs and
lagoons and the vivid blue of the deeper
open water in between
closer to the surface the separate coral
formations become discernible each one
is a community of different kinds of
coral that between them create these
intricate limestone structures
this colony of brain coral is 20 feet in
diameter and perhaps 2,000 years old
just one component part of the largest
living structure on our planet
in contrast to Australia New Zealand has
a skyline dominated by mountains tallest
of all is Mount Cook part of the young
rugged spine of South Island
the southwest coast is cut through by
fields this is milford sound 12 miles
long a thousand feet deep and flanked by
the world's tallest sea cliffs
you